#summary BFT-SMaRt demo packages

= BFT-SMaRt demos =

There are several demo applications deployed together with the BFT-SMaRt source code.
These demos are in the package {{{bftsmart.demo}}}.

BFT-SMaRt has a configuration file with options to run the protocol. The configuration file is in config/system.config. A short description is provided before each parameter, and values are set for the most common operations.

Before running the protocol, the configuration file config/hosts.config must be updated with the information about the servers where the protocol is being executed. The file is in the format:

#server id, address and port (the ids from 0 to n-1 are the service replicas)<br />
0 localhost 11234<br />
1 localhost 11235<br /> 
2 localhost 11236<br />
3 localhost 11237<br /> 

You can run the counter demonstration by executing the following commands, from within the main folder:

==CounterServer==

CounterServer is an application where clients submits messages to replica, messages are ordered and the throughput is displayed to the user. It has no real application but is useful to verify the system functioning and performance.

===Start the servers (4 replicas, to tolerate 1 fault)===

{{{smartrun.sh navigators.smart.tom.demo.counter.CounterServer 0}}}<br/>
{{{smartrun.sh navigators.smart.tom.demo.counter.CounterServer 1}}}<br/>
{{{smartrun.sh navigators.smart.tom.demo.counter.CounterServer 2}}}<br/>
{{{smartrun.sh navigators.smart.tom.demo.counter.CounterServer 3}}}<br/>

==Start a client==

#if {{{<increment>}}} equals 0 the request will be read-only
#default {{{<number of operations>}}} equals 1000

{{{runscripts\smartrun.sh navigators.smart.tom.demo.counter.CounterClient 1001 <increment> [<number of operations>]}}}

You can use the "runsmart.bat" script in Windows, and the "runsmart.sh" script em UNIX-like systems (Linux, MacOS, etc.). These scripts can be easely be adapted to run other demos, and you can derived other scripts from these ones to run BFT-SMaRt in other operating systems.

Additionally to the counter demo, there is also the random demo. You can run it by using the RandomServer and RandomClient classes located in the package navigators.smart.tom.demo.random.

BFT-SMaRt implements a state transfer protocol, which is already pretty robust. You can activate/de-activate it by editing the "config/system.config" file, and setting the parameter "{{{system.totalordermulticast.state_transfer}}}" to "{{{false}}}".