#summary Papers and Projects that use BFT-SMaRt.
#labels Phase-Support,Featured

= Projects =

Projects in which components use BFT-SMaRt:

 * [http://www.navigators.di.fc.ul.pt/software/depspace/ DepSpace]
 * [http://tclouds-project.eu TClouds]
 * [http://massif-project.eu/ MASSIF]
 * [http://www.secfunet.eu/ SecFuNet]
 * [http://trone.di.fc.ul.pt/ TRONE]
 * [http://cloudfit.di.fc.ul.pt/ CloudFit]
 * [http://red.lsd.di.uminho.pt/ ReD]

= Papers =

Papers describing different aspects of BFT-SMaRt:

 * Alysson Bessani, João Sousa, Eduardo Alchieri. State Machine Replication for the Masses with BFT-SMaRt. Department of Informatics, University of Lisbon. DI-FCUL-TR-2013-07. October 2013.  (*we kindly ask researchers using BFT-SMaRt to cite this report to make it easy for us to track references*)

 * Alysson Bessani, Marcel Santos, João Felix, Nuno Neves, Miguel Correia. On the Efficiency of Durable State Machine Replication. USENIX’13: USENIX Annual Technical Conference. San Jose, CA, USA. June 2013. 

 * João Sousa, Alysson Bessani. From Byzantine Consensus to BFT State Machine Replication: A Latency-optimal transformation. EDCC'12: The 9th European Conference on Dependable Computing. Sibiu, Romania. May 2012.

Non-complete list of papers that use BFT-SMaRt or parts of its code base:

 * Julian James Stephen, Patrick Eugster. Assured Cloud-Based Data Analysis with ClusterBFT. Middleware'13: The 14th ACM/IFIP/USENIX International Middleware Conference. Beijing, China. December 2013.

 * Rolando Martins , Rajeev Gandhi , Priya Narasimhan , Soila Pertet , Antonio Casimiro , Diego Kreutz and Paulo Verissimo. Experiences with Fault-Injection in a Byzantine Fault-Tolerant Protocol. Middleware'13: The 14th ACM/IFIP/USENIX International Middleware Conference. Beijing, China. December 2013.

 * Giuliana Veronese, Miguel Correia, Alysson Bessani, Lau Lung, Paulo Verissimo. Efficient Byzantine Fault Tolerance. IEEE Transactions on Computers. Vol. 62, Num. 1, pp. 16-30. IEEE Computer Society. January 2013.

 * Rüdiger Kapitza, Johannes Behl, Christian Cachin, Tobias Distler, Simon Kuhnle, Seyed Vahid Mohammadi, Wolfgang Schröder-Preikschat,  Klaus Stengel. CheapBFT: Resource-efficient Byzantine Fault Tolerance. EuroSys'12: The 7th ACM SIGOPS/EuroSys European Systems Conference. Bern, Switzerland. April 2012.

 * Giuliana Veronese, Miguel Correia, Alysson Bessani, Lau Lung. EBAWA: Efficient Byzantine Agreement for Wide-Area Networks. HASE'10: The 12th IEEE International High Assurance Systems Engineering Symposium. San Jose, CA, USA. November 2010.

 * Eduardo Adilio Pelinson Alchieri, Alysson Neves Bessani, Joni da Silva Fraga. A Dependable Infrastructure for Cooperative Web Services Coordination. International Journal of Web Services Research. Vol. 7, Num. 2, pp. 43-64. Idea Group Publishing. 2010.

 * Giuliana Santos Veronese, Miguel Correia, Alysson Neves Bessani, Lau Cheuk Lung. Spin One's Wheels? Byzantine Fault Tolerance with a Spinning Primary. SRDS'09: The 30th IEEE Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems. Niagara Falls, USA, September 2009.

 * Alysson Neves Bessani, Miguel Correia, Joni da Silva Fraga, Lau Cheuk Lung. An Efficient Byzantine-Resilient Tuple Space. IEEE Transactions on Computers. IEEE Computer Society. August 2009 (vol. 58 no. 8) pp. 1080-1094.

 * Alysson Neves Bessani, Eduardo Adilio Pelinson Alchieri, Miguel Correia, Joni da Silva Fraga. DepSpace: A Byzantine Fault-Tolerant Coordination Service. EuroSys'08: The 3rd ACM SIGOPS/EuroSys European Systems Conference. Glasgow, Scotland. April 2008.

 * Wagner Saback Dantas, Alysson Neves Bessani, Joni da Silva Fraga, Miguel Correia. Evaluating Byzantine Quorum Systems. SRDS'07: The 26th IEEE International Symposium on Reliable Distributed Systems. Beijing, China. October 2007.